So we want to handle some asynchronous code in this add place action creator.
Now you may know that this is possible with redux but we need an additional middleware for this,
it's called redux thunk and more about this can be learned in probably any react for web course
in my complete guide but probably also in other courses. Let's install that library with npm install
--save and then it's redux-thunk, written like this.
This is not a library that adds any native code so we don't need to do anything in Xcode or something
like that,
we just install this library and then we can go to configure store which is where we in the end have
our compose enhancers function here.
We now want to apply some middleware to our redux store,
so therefore from redux, I'm going to import apply middleware,
I also need to import the middleware we just added, thunk, so I import thunk and you can name this whatever
you want, it's the default export so you can rename it from redux thunk, with this,
I now want to add it to my set up here.
Conveniently we can simply pass an argument to compose enhancers,
we can pass apply middleware to this function and to apply middleware on the other hand, we just pass
thunk, just like that. With this, we already got the thunk middleware added and the thunk middleware now will
automatically step in in the action creators if we follow a certain pattern in such an action creator,
let me give you an example, right now all action creators have the default form of an action creator,
ie they return an action, an action object.
If this function were to no longer return this but if this would instead return another function, then
redux thunk would step in and basically capture that and handle it
because this is just what the thunk middleware is there for, it handles cases where we don't return an object
in an action creator but a function. In this function, redux thunk will then automatically provide us one
argument,
the dispatch function we can then in turn call inside of this function,
so a lot of functions here.
The idea behind this is that we can now run any code in here, synchronous or asynchronous and when
we're done, we're calling dispatch to dispatch another action from inside here,
this basically allows us to dispatch some we're done action once we're done for example. So this is the
idea we have here,
so now it's inside this function that I'm going to send my request to the backend
and how does this now work?
I want to post some data to the backend here because I want to create a new place,
so first of all I'm going to use the fetch API,
you don't need to import it, you can just use it like this
and the first argument here is the url
you're about to send the request to.
So if we have a look at our firebase project, that would be this url, of course you should pick your own
one, you can now pass this here
but this is not the full url, this basically is the root url of our database you could
say, you can now simply create a nested data structure for firebase
and if you're using your own server, simply use the right endpoint
you set up there.
So on firebase you can now basically say where do I want to store data and I'm storing places so I'm
targeting a places subfolder
so to say
and on firebase
and that's really just something specific to firebase, you need to add a .json at the end,
this is not required on your own backend probably, this is really just part of the firebase endpoint.
Now by default
and for that I will switch back to firebase,
all access is blocked in a firebase project which is a good thing and you want to control access in
a real app
but here for demo purposes, since we have no way of logging in right now, I'll go to rules under database
and switch both to true here.
This essentially means that both read and write access is always granted
no matter who's trying to read or write
and again, this is of course not a setting you want to use in production,
it is a setting which I use here and will later refine it once we add authentication.
So now we can send a request to this url and by default, if we would leave it like this, this would
send a get request so it would try to get some data.
As I said, I want to send a post request though and we turn this into a post request by passing a javascript
object as the second argument, here
we can configure the request, there you can add a method property and override the default method
which would have been get,
so here the method I want to use is now post to create a new entry. A post request only makes sense if
we also attach a body,
so I will add a body property here and the body has to be a string,
a json
object basically, so json data in the json format. For that we can use json stringify
to turn a javascript object into such a string
and this javascript object doesn't even exist yet,
so I'll create it before I create the fetch request. I'll create an object and store it in a constant,
I'll name it place data
and here this is a new javascript object, in this object,
I want to have the name of the place, will be place name and the location which will be guess what, location,
so these two arguments are getting used.
I don't use the image yet because we'll have to upload the image a bit differently
in one of the next steps
but let's stick to this step for now.
Now I can pass place data to stringify and now this will be turned in a string
and this is it,
this will send the http request and store your data on the server.
Now we need to chain some methods here to react to the response of that and to catch potential errors.
First of all I'm adding a catch block,
I can do this because the fetch method returns a promise,
so I can add catch to catch errors and then to well handle a successful response
and therefore now I will simply log the error to the console to see what happened. Then this is if we
don't go into the catch block, so if we got a response, this response can also be used here in an arrow function
and first of all, I have to call the json method on this,
this will basically extract the data from the response and it will yield another promise so I chain
another then call and that's just how the fetch API works,
read more about that in the docs I already mentioned. Here
I basically get back the parsed response and here we can now use that in whichever way we want to use
it,
so here I will also just log this to the console for now so that we can see if that worked
and what's inside the response. With that data in mind and with that set up, we can see if that works,
what happens if we trigger add place? Please note that we no longer dispatch anything to the store,
we no longer have any data in the store, we just sent the request but that is what I want to test right
now. For this,
make sure that your development server is running, maybe rerun npm run android and so on if you're facing
any issues, like for example here when you get the error here that redux thunk is not found, quit the development
server and simply restart it,
so I'm doing this here with running npm run ios again and there also just to be safe, npm run Android
again. And with that out of the way, let's try it out,
let's quickly go into the ios app, submit this and click share place,
now let's pick an image from the gallery on ios as you learned,
let's pick this one again,
select a place and enter some cool place and thank you for that
auto correction, share the place and now how do we see if it worked?
I forgot to attach this to my debugging tools but we can go to firebase and there, you should see the
new places
node, if you go in there, you should see this cryptic string,
that's an ID automatically created by firebase for that place and then here, we got the location and
some cool place, so that's looking really good,
that seems to work. And to also see this here in the developer tools,
I will actually debug this remotely so that this is connected here on the right and then quickly
try it again to see the response,
so let's also again pick a nice image here,
like that, pick a place like this, again testing this, share the place and now here you see on the right
this object with this cryptic name,
that is what you get back from firebase automatically
so it informs you about the ID it created.
And this is already how we can store data on the server,
so done,
goodbye,
let's move on to the next module.
No not reall,
we also got an image and it would be nice if we could not only store places on the server but also fetch
them and render them in our list.
Let's work on the image first which is the more complex part
and then let's finish this module by getting the places.
But still some work to do,
let's dive into this in the next lecture.